# Bike-Sales-Analysis
# Bike Sales Data Analysis Summary
This data is from Bike sales from three regions namely Europe, North America and the pacific. It has about 1000 rows and 13 columns namely; ID - which is the unique number given to buyers, Marital Status, Gender, Income of the buyer, Children – which is the number of offsprings a buyer has, Education – which is the buyer’s highest level of education, occupation, whether they own a home or not, the number of cars they own, their commute distance, region, age and if they purchased a bike or not.
# Data Cleaning
Firstly, I create a copy of the original data on another sheet which I name the working sheet. This copy was created to avoid making unintended changes to the original data and have the original as back up or reference in case I mess something up in the copy.
I go ahead to select all the data in the working sheet and remove duplicates since every single ID number in the ID column is supposed to be unique (26 duplicates were removed), failure to get rid of these duplicates will affect the accuracy and precision and our data which might affect decision making.
In the “Marital Status” column, “M” represented buyers who were married while “S” represented buyers who were single and in the “Gender” column, “M” represented male buyers while “F” represented female buyers. This can be confusing for anyone who would be using the Dashboard that I will create in the end after analyzing the data. I go ahead to use Excel’s “find and replace” to replace the data in these two columns with their appropriate full meanings, separately, so as to avoid replacing the “M”s in the Gender column too with “Married” rather than “Male”.
To have a good visualization and not let the age column stretch my visualization so far out due to the age ranging from 25 all the way down to 89, I decided to add another column beside it and name it “Age bracket”. In this age bracket column, I used the nested if function in Excel to group them by using age ranges as condition, say “IF L2>54,”Old”……………… . I had them grouped into “Old”, “Middle age” and “Adolescents”.
# Pivot Tables
A PivotTable is a powerful tool to calculate, summarize, and analyze data that lets you see comparisons, patterns, and trends in your data. Pivot tables comes in very handy because it allows you analyze your data without having to type long formulas. I used the pivot table to find the average income of males and females who bought bikes or not by dragging the “Gender” column into rows field and “Income” column into the value field, and I drag the “Purchased bike” column in the column filed. So automatically Excel sums the data from the column dragged into the value field if it contains numbers (in this case the income column), so I go into my value field settings and change it from sum to average.
# Dashboard and Visualization
Data Visualization is the representation of data in a graphical format. It makes the data easier to understand. In visualizing data, it’s very important for the Data Analyst to consider the audience and viewers (which in most cases are the managers and stakeholders). The visualization created by the Analyst should be one that makes use of preattentive attributes so that managers can easily understand and make meaning out of the visualization. Some of these attributes include color, size, shape, and length among others. It is also very important to use the appropriate charts or graphs that best explains what the Data Analyst is trying to portray.
In creating the Dashboard, I made use of slicers so our visualization can be filtered to bring out more meaning, with regions, marital status and educational background being the columns I considered for the slicers; therefore my visualization can be filtered by regions, marital status or educational background.
# Conclusion and Decision Making
From the visualization, Male bike buyers were making more money than female bike buyers. Male bike buyers with an average of $60,124.00 while female bike buyers on average were making $55,774.00. The assumption that Graduate Degree Holders purchased more bikes than High school leavers was also proved right, as 54% Graduate Degree Holders purchased a bike as compared to 44% of high school leavers who purchased a bike. 
From the Analysis, Middle Agers have the highest number for those that bought bikes and those that did not, it is advisable to bring market strategies that will help keep the ones that bought the bikes as constant customers and one that will persuade the number of them that did not. We can do same for the Old Age group and Adolescent age group, maybe the strategies used for the Middle Agers might not suit them, so we develop new strategies for those age groups with the same aim in mind, which is getting most of them on board as customers so as to boost sales.
